.TH DEPLOY 1 "2026" "CAP5" "CAP5 Cluster Administration Package"
.SH NAME
deploy \- build and install a CAP5 cluster tool as RPM or into a directory
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B deploy
.B \-\-tool
.I TOOLNAME
.RB [ \-\-rpm ]
.RB [ \-\-clean | \-\-distclean ]
.PP
.B deploy
.B \-\-tool
.I TOOLNAME
.B \-\-prefix
.I DIR
.RB [ \-\-clean | \-\-distclean ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B deploy
invokes the per-tool Makefile under
.IR src/TOOLNAME /
to build and install a single tool from the CAP5 bundle.
It sources the shared function library from
.I /usr/libexec/cap5/sh/cfunc
(system install) or
.I $CAPHOME/libexec/sh/cfunc
(development checkout).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-\-tool " TOOLNAME"
Name of the tool directory under
.IR src/ .
Required.
.TP
.BI \-\-prefix " DIR"
Install the tool into
.IR DIR .
Passed to
.B make install
as the
.B PREFIX
variable.
Mutually exclusive with
.BR \-\-rpm .
.TP
.B \-\-rpm
Build and install as an RPM package via
.B rpmbuild
and
.BR rpminstall .
.TP
.B \-\-clean
Run
.B make clean
before building.
.TP
.B \-\-distclean
Run
.B make distclean
before building.
.TP
.BR \-\-debug , " \-\-verbose"
Print additional diagnostic information during the build.
.TP
.BR \-\-help , " \-\-usage"
Print a brief usage summary and exit.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B CAPHOME
Path to the CAP5 development checkout.
Required when
.I /usr/libexec/cap5/sh/cfunc
is not present (i.e., running from source).
.SH EXAMPLES
Build and install
.B pdsh
as an RPM:
.PP
.RS
deploy \-\-tool pdsh \-\-rpm
.RE
.PP
Install
.B genders
into a local prefix, discarding any prior build state:
.PP
.RS
deploy \-\-tool genders \-\-prefix /opt/cap5 \-\-distclean
.RE
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /usr/libexec/cap5/sh/cfunc
Shared bash function library (system install).
.TP
.I $CAPHOME/libexec/sh/cfunc
Shared bash function library (development checkout).
.TP
.I /usr/share/doc/cap5/
Installed documentation.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR make (1),
.BR rpmbuild (8)
.SH BUGS
Report bugs to:
.I cap5-devel_AT_lists_DOT_sf_DOT_net
.SH COPYRIGHT
\(co Copyright 2006, 2007, 2012 Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P.
.PP
This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
option) any later version.
